.TH "CD2TRACK" 1 "April 2011" "" "Compact Disc Extractor"
.SH NAME
cd2track \- extract audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
cd2track [OPTIONS] [track 1] [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
cd2track extracts audio files from a compact disc and encodes them to tracks. If track numbers are given, extracts only those tracks. Otherwise, extracts the entire disc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cdrom\fR=\fICDROM\fR
the CD-ROM device to extract audio from
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-speed\fR=\fISPEED\fR
the speed to extract audio data at
.SH EXTRACTION OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR
The audio format of the extracted audio tracks. For a list of available audio formats, try: -t help.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quality\fR=\fIQUALITY\fR
The desired quality of the extracted tracks. For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try: -q help
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The target directory for the extracted tracks. If none is given, the current working directory is used. If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fISTRING\fR
The format string to use for new filenames. Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created. All other text is left as-is. If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xmcd\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
A MusicBrainz XML file or FreeDB XMCD file to use for metadata for the extracted tracks. XML and XMCD files can be obtained from the track2xmcd(1), cd2xmcd(1), dvda2xmcd(1), and editxmcd(1) programs.
.TP
\fB\-\-album\-number\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the album number of this CD, if it is one in a series of albums
.TP
\fB\-\-album\-total\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the total number of albums in this CD's set, if it is one in a series of albums
.TP
\fB\-\-replay\-gain\fR
add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-replay\-gain\fR
do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Extract all of the tracks from \fI/dev/cdrom\fR as FLAC files at the default quality using metadata from album.xmcd:
.IP
cd2track -t flac -x album.xmcd -c /dev/cdrom

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
