.TH "CD2XMCD" 1 "April 2011" "" "Compact Disc Metadata Retriever"
.SH NAME
cd2xmcd \- retrieves metadata from a compact disc
.SH SYNOPSIS
cd2xmcd [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
cd2xmcd takes a compact disc device and retrieves an XML or XMCD file containing its metadata such as track name, album name and artist. By default, the MusicBrainz service is queried first. If no matches are found, the FreeDB service is queried next. If no data is found on either, an empty MusicBrainz XML file is written which can be edited by the user.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xmcd\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
The file in which MusicBrainz XML or FreeDB XMCD data will be placed. track2xmcd(1) will refuse to overwrite an existing file if present. If no filename is given, data will be written to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cdrom\fR=\fICDROM\fR
the CD-ROM device to extract metadata from
.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the MusicBrainz server name to query for XML data
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the MusicBrainz port number to query for XML data
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the FreeDB server name to query for XMCD data
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the FreeDB port number to query for XMCD data
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-musicbrainz\fR
do not query MusicBrainz
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-freedb\fR
do not query FreeDB
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-default\fR
if multiple matching discs are found, select the first choice automatically
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Option an XMCD file called album.xmcd from the contents of /dev/cdrom
.IP
cd2xmcd -c /dev/cdrom -x album.xmcd

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
