.TH "DVDA2XMCD" 1 "April 2011" "" "DVD-Audio Metadata Retriever"
.SH NAME
dvda2xmcd \- retrieves metadata from a DVD-Audio disc
.SH SYNOPSIS
dvda2xmcd [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
dvda2xmcd takes a DVD-Audio's AUDIO_TS directory and retrieves an XML or XMCD file containing its metadata such as track name, album name and artist. By default, the MusicBrainz service is queried first. If no matches are found, the FreeDB service is queried next. If no data is found on either, an empty MusicBrainz XML file is written which can be edited by the user.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xmcd\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
The file in which MusicBrainz XML or FreeDB XMCD data will be placed. track2xmcd(1) will refuse to overwrite an existing file if present. If no filename is given, data will be written to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-audio_ts\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
the DVD-Audio's AUDIO_TS directory
.TP
\fB\-\-title\fR=\fINUMBER\fR
the title number to retrieve metadata from, starting from 1; the number of titles can be determined from the dvdainfo(1) utility
.SH SERVER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the MusicBrainz server name to query for XML data
.TP
\fB\-\-musicbrainz\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the MusicBrainz port number to query for XML data
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-server\fR=\fIHOSTNAME\fR
the FreeDB server name to query for XMCD data
.TP
\fB\-\-freedb\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
the FreeDB port number to query for XMCD data
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-musicbrainz\fR
do not query MusicBrainz
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-freedb\fR
do not query FreeDB
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-default\fR
if multiple matching titles are found, select the first choice automatically
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
Obtain an XMCD file called album.xmcd from the contents of /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS
.IP
dvda2xmcd -x album.xmcd -c /media/cdrom/AUDIO_TS

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
