.TH "TRACKSPLIT" 1 "April 2011" "" "Audio File Splitter"
.SH NAME
tracksplit \- split audio track
.SH SYNOPSIS
tracksplit [OPTIONS] <track 1>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
tracksplit splits an audio track into several smaller tracks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug.
.TP
\fB\-\-cue\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
the cuesheet to use for splitting track
.SH ENCODING OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR
The audio format to convert the split tracks to. For a list of available audio formats, try: -t help.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quality\fR=\fIQUALITY\fR
The desired quality of the split tracks. For a list of available quality modes for a given format, try: -q help
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
The target directory for the split tracks. If none is given, the current working directory is used. If the target directory does not exist, it will be created automatically.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fISTRING\fR
The format string to use for new filenames. Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created. All other text is left as-is. If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH METADATA OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xmcd\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
A MusicBrainz XML file or FreeDB XMCD file to use for metadata for the split tracks. If no file is given, metadata will be taken from the source track, if present. XML and XMCD files can be obtained from the track2xmcd(1), cd2xmcd(1), dvda2xmcd(1), and editxmcd(1) programs.
.TP
\fB\-\-replay\-gain\fR
add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-replay\-gain\fR
do not add ReplayGain metadata to newly created tracks
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Split CDImage.wav into several WAVE files using the cuesheet CDImage.cue:
.IP
tracksplit --cue=CDImage.cue CDImage.wav

.LP
Split album.flac into several FLAC files using album.toc and metadata from album.xmcd:
.IP
tracksplit --cue=album.toc -x album.xmcd album.flac

.LP
Obtain CDImage.cue using the cdrdao(1) utilities:
.IP
cdrdao read-toc --device /dev/cdrom CDImage.toc

.IP
toc2cue CDImage.toc CDImage.cue

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR trackrename (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
