.TH "TRACKRENAME" 1 "April 2011" "" "Audio File Renamer"
.SH NAME
trackrename \- renames files based on metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
trackrename [OPTIONS] <track 1> [track 2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
trackrename takes a list of audio files and renames them based on external or internal metadata.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fIVERBOSITY\fR
The level of output to display. Choose between 'normal', 'quiet' and 'debug.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-xmcd\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
A MusicBrainz XML file or FreeDB XMCD file to use for track renaming metadata. If no file is given, metadata will be taken from the source tracks, if present. XML and XMCD files can be obtained from the track2xmcd(1), cd2xmcd(1), dvda2xmcd(1), and editxmcd(1) programs.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR=\fISTRING\fR
The format string to use for new filenames. Template fields are replaced with metadata values when new tracks are created. All other text is left as-is. If this option is omitted, a default format string is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Rename all of the FLAC files in the current directory based on their FLAC tag metadata:
.IP
track2rename *.flac

.LP
Rename all of the MP3s in targetdir based on the contents of album.xmcd:
.IP
trackrename -x album.xmcd targetdir/*.mp3

.LP
Rename file.flac with a custom template:
.IP
trackrename "--format=%(track_number)2.2d - %(album_name)s - %(track_name)s.%(suffix)s" file.flac

.SH FORMAT STRING FIELDS
.TS
tab(:);
| c   s |
| c | c |
| r | l |.
_
Template Fields
Key:Value
=
\fC%(track_number)2.2d\fR:the track's number on the CD
\fC%(track_total)d\fR:the total number of tracks on the CD
\fC%(album_number)d\fR:the CD's album number
\fC%(album_total)d\fR:the total number of CDs in the set
\fC%(album_track_number)s\fR:combination of album and track number
\fC%(track_name)s\fR:the track's name
\fC%(album_name)s\fR:the album's name
\fC%(artist_name)s\fR:the track's artist name
\fC%(performer_name)s\fR:the track's performer name
\fC%(composer_name)s\fR:the track's composer name
\fC%(conductor_name)s\fR:the track's conductor name
\fC%(media)s\fR:the track's source media
\fC%(ISRC)s\fR:the track's ISRC
\fC%(catalog)s\fR:the track's catalog number
\fC%(copyright)s\fR:the track's copyright information
\fC%(publisher)s\fR:the track's publisher
\fC%(year)s\fR:the track's publication year
\fC%(date)s\fR:the track's original recording date
\fC%(suffix)s\fR:the track's suffix
\fC%(basename)s\fR:the track's original name, without suffix
_
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR audiotools-config (1),
.BR audiotools.cfg (5),
.BR cd2track (1),
.BR cd2xmcd (1),
.BR cdinfo (1),
.BR cdplay (1),
.BR coverdump (1),
.BR coverview (1),
.BR dvda2track (1),
.BR dvda2xmcd (1),
.BR dvdainfo (1),
.BR editxmcd (1),
.BR track2cd (1),
.BR track2track (1),
.BR track2xmcd (1),
.BR trackcat (1),
.BR trackcmp (1),
.BR trackinfo (1),
.BR tracklength (1),
.BR tracklint (1),
.BR trackplay (1),
.BR tracksplit (1),
.BR tracktag (1),
.BR trackverify (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brian Langenberger
